README.md, before:

# sampling-mesh
An adaptively scaled interpolation mesh for accelerating repeated function calls in Python.

This has similar goals as a caching function wrapper, but for continuously valued inputs.

This is fully functioning and passes all tests, but is still somewhat unpolished. It can only use functions that take a 1D numpy array as input, and output a single float. Additionally, it is still in need of some optimizations.

Check out SamplingMesh.py for the centerpiece of the project, the SamplingMesh class. This class allows a user to specify an (absolute and/or relative) error tolerance, a function, and a resolution for initial curvature estimates. From this, it creates a mesh (structured as a k-d tree) that allows repeated function calls to the same region to reuse old calculations. This is accomplished by finding the cell the requested point is in, halving the size of the cell in all directions until the root mean squared error (RMSE) is within the requested bounds. This has been tested and confirmed with RMSE as small as $10^{-10}$; if the requested RMSE is so small that floating point precision on function inputs, it will raise an error.

Due to fleshing out a full hypercube cell, the first interpolation call to the mesh calls the target function $\mathcal{O} \left(2^{k}\right)$ times, where $k$ is the number of dimensions. However, subsequent calls to that cell don't call the target function at all. If you expect to be calling the function many times over the same region, this can save significant time.

Additionally, with no additional calls to the target function, the mesh can calculate the exact gradient of the interpolation. This also serves as an approximation of the gradient of the target function: the RMSE of this approximation is proportional to the square root of the product of the curvature and the RMSE of the interpolation.

Incoming features: multidimensional output from target function, adaptive cell ratio determination.

Commit message:

Add support for multidimensional output
Implemented multidimensional outputs, and one test in interpolating and gradients for it.

Also removed usage of global NDIM variable, allowing for multiple meshes with different input dimensions to coexist.

README.md, after:

# sampling-mesh
An adaptively scaled interpolation mesh for accelerating repeated function calls in Python.

This has similar goals as a function caching wrapper, but for continuously valued inputs.

Unlike a function caching wrapper, applying this in the wrong situations will certainly cause the program to run slower. This approach is highest efficiency with low curvature, high error tolerance, and a high density of calls.

This is fully functioning and passes all tests, but is still a work in progress. It can only use functions that take a 1D numpy array as input, and output another numpy array (any number of dimensions). Additionally, it is still in need of some optimizations.

Check out SamplingMesh.py for the centerpiece of the project, the SamplingMesh class. This class allows a user to specify an (absolute and/or relative) error tolerance, a function, and a resolution for initial curvature estimates. From this, it creates a mesh (structured as a k-d tree) that allows repeated function calls to the same region to reuse old calculations. This is accomplished by finding the cell the requested point is in, halving the size of the cell in all directions until the root mean squared error (RMSE) is within the requested bounds. This has been tested and confirmed with RMSE as small as $10^{-10}$; if the requested RMSE is so small that floating point precision on function inputs becomes a limiting factor, it will raise an error.

Due to fleshing out a full hypercube cell, the first interpolation call to the mesh calls the target function $\mathcal{O} \left(2^{k}\right)$ times, where $k$ is the number of dimensions. However, subsequent calls to that cell don't call the target function at all. If you expect to be calling the function many times over the same region, this can save significant time.

Additionally, with no additional calls to the target function, the mesh can calculate the exact gradient of the interpolation. This also serves as an approximation of the gradient of the target function: the RMSE of this approximation is proportional to the square root of the product of the curvature and the RMSE of the interpolation.

Incoming features: multidimensional output from target function, adaptive cell ratio determination.
